Overview

Ashesi University is a private, non-profit university located in Accra, Ghana. The mission of Ashesi University is to educate ethical, entrepreneurial leaders in Africa; to cultivate within students the critical thinking skills, the concern for others, and the courage it will take to transform the continent. Ashesi was ranked first in Ghana, ninth in Africa, and among the world’s top 400, in the 2020 Global Times Higher Education (THE) University Impact Rankings. Ashesi ranks 1st in Ghana in 2020 Times Higher Education Impact Ranking – Ashesi University Foundation.
​
Ashesi is the youngest university to have been granted a Presidential Charter in Ghana's history. It is a member of the Council of Independent Universities, the Association of African Universities, and the Association of Commonwealth Universities.
 
Ashesi offers a four-year bachelor's program grounded in a multidisciplinary core curriculum featuring majors in Business Administration, Management Information Systems, Computer Science, Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Computer Engineering and Mechanical Engineering[citation needed]. It runs Ashesi Innovation Experience, a two-week program that exposes students between the ages of 15 and 19 to Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Robotics, Creativity, and Engineering basics to help prepare them for transitioning into college, and oversees the curriculum development for the Next Generation Cocoa Youth Programme.
​
Ashesi University's 100-acre campus in Berekuso overlooks the Ghanaian capital city of Accra. It contains the Natembea health centre, two sports courts and a sports center with a football field, running track and gym. It also hosts the Ghana Climate innovation centre.

Major's Offered

Engineering

B.Sc. Computer Engineering
B.Sc. Electrical & Electronic Engineering
B.Sc. Mechanical Engineering
M.Sc. Mechatronic Engineering
M.Phil. Mechatronic Engineering
MAS Mechatronic Engineering (awarded through ETH Zürich)

Courses Offered for Computer Science

First Year

First Semester

Course Code	Course Title	Credit Hours
ECD 111	Foundation of Design and Entrepreneurship I	1
ECD 112	Introduction to Computer Science	1
ECD 113	Ashesi Success	1
ECD 114	Written and Oral Communication	1
ECD 115	Calculus I	1

Second Semester

Course Code	Course Title	Credit Hours
ECD 121	Foundation of Design and Entrepreneurship II	1
ECD 122	Introduction to Computer Programming	1
ECD 123 Text and Meaning	1
ECD 124	Calculus II	1
ECD 125	Leadership Seminar 1: What makes a good leader ?	1

Business Administration

B.Sc. Business Administrator

Computer Science & Information Systems 
B.Sc. Computer Science
B.Sc. Management Information Systems

Scholarship Selection

The selection process begins by determining whether a student qualifies to be admitted into Ashesi, based on each applicant’s overall profile. The initial selection process is need-blind.
Applicants who qualify to enter Ashesi, and applied for scholarships, are then evaluated on the basis of their financial need; at this stage, a thorough assessment is made of all applicant information gathered by the Scholarship Committee, which is made up of the entire admissions team. Where information provided is unclear, students may be asked additional questions on their financial need during their Admissions interview.
Based on the proven financial need, applicants are placed into one of four categories: Extreme Need, High Need, Medium Need or Low Need. For each category of aid, there is a set amount of funding Ashesi can award, or a set amount of named scholarships assigned. Students in each category are then ranked based on the strength of their admissions application; funding is awarded to students in each category based on this ranking, until the allocated funds run out for the admissions period. 
Students within each category who do not immediately receive funds, are then placed on a waitlist, and informed of their status. Should an accepted student decline a scholarship offer, the offer is then passed on to the next student on the waitlist. Students who receive scholarships at Ashesi typically demonstrate that they would be;
Able to successfully complete academic work at Ashesi.
Otherwise unable to afford to attend Ashesi.
Active contributors to campus life and culture.
Committed to giving back to their communities and showing strong leadership potential.


What Scholarship Covers


Scholarship cover varies, based on demonstrated need. Ashesi's scholarships can cover a part of tuition fees, or at the entire cost of studying at Ashesi. Some categories of scholarships cover not only the full tuition, but also cover housing, meals on campus, learning materials, and support for basic living expenses. Applicants who are awarded scholarships will be informed of the conditions of their scholarship, in their admissions package.



Student Life
What is life like at Ashesi?
Ashesi Campus Tour (2020)
*productive* day at Ashesi | last week of college, get productive with me, studying, campus tour✨
ASHESI UNIVERSITY | Hostel/Dorm tour off campus😱🤩

Ashesi Socials

https://www.facebook.com/Ashesi/
https://twitter.com/ashesi
https://www.linkedin.com/school/ashesiuniversity/










