Overview

Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST) is a world-class academic center of excellence, spearheading West Africa’s pursuit of technological advancement. The Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology is the public university established in the country, as well as the largest university in the Kumasi Metropolis and in the Ashanti Region.
 
In November 2019, KNUST was ranked as the best university in Ghana and West Africa by U.S. News & World Report. It was also ranked 14th in Africa and 706th in the world, with a global score of 42.4.  In November 2020 it was ranked the best for the second time by U.S. News & World Report. This time it climbed 2 positions to be 12th best in Africa.
​
KNUST has, since January 2005, transformed from its previous centralized system of administration into a decentralized collegiate university. Under this system, the faculties have been condensed into six colleges. The colleges are semi-autonomous, which means that they are given the power to largely run on their own without much dependence on the central administration for financial support. 
​
There are numerous KNUST-approved hostels, mostly in close proximity to the main campus. Students of all financial backgrounds have their accommodation needs catered for. There are six halls of residence at the Kumasi campus, each administered by a hall council consisting of senior and junior members. There are few hostels on campus like the GUSS hostel, Brunei, and Tek credit hostel. The executive head is the hall master, who is assisted by a senior tutor. There is a hall bursar and other supporting staff.

Courses Offered

College of Agriculture and Natural Resources

Faculty of Agriculture
Department of Agricultural Economics, Agribusiness and Extension
Department of Animal Sciences
Department of Crop and Soil Sciences
Department of Horticulture
Faculty of Renewable Natural Resources
Department of Fisheries and Watershed Management

College of Health Sciences

Faculty of Allied Health Sciences
Department of Medical Laboratory Technology
Department of Nursing
Department of Sonography
Department of Sports and Exercise Science
Faculty of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences
Department of Nursing
Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry
Department of Pharmacology
Department of Pharmacognosy
Department of Agroforestry
Department of Silviculture and Forest Management
Department of Wildlife and Range Management
Department of Wood Science and Technology
Faculty of Forest Resources Technology
Department of Ecotourism and Forest Recreation
Department of Land Reclamation and Rehabilitation
Department of Pharmacy Practice
Department of Pharmaceutics
Department of Herbal Medicine
Dental School
School of Medical Sciences
School of Veterinary Medicine

College of Humanities and Social Sciences

Faculty of Law
Faculty of Social Sciences
Department of Economics
Department of English
Department of Social Forestry
Department of Wood Processing and Marketing

College of Art and Built Environment

Department of Communication Design
Department of General Art Studies
Department of Painting and Sculpture
Department of Integrated Rural Art/Industry
Department of Industrial Art
Department of Educational Innovations in
Science and Technology
Department of Publishing Studies
Department of Architecture
Department of Building Technology
Department of Land Economy
Department of Planning
Centre for Settlements Studies
Centre for Land Studies

College of Science

Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology
Department of Chemistry
Department of Computer Science
Department of Environmental Science
Department of Food Science and Technology
Department of Mathematics
Department of Optometry and Visual Science
Department of Physics
Department of Theoretical and Applied Biology
Department of Statistics and Actuarial Sciences

Department of Geography and Rural Development
Department of History and Political Studies
Department of Modern Languages
Department of Religious Studies
Department of Sociology and Social Work
School of Business

College of Engineering

Department of Agricultural Engineering
Department of Aerospace Engineering
Department of Chemical Engineering
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Computer Engineerings
Department of Electrical Engineering/Electronics Engineering & Telecommunication Engineering
Department of Geological Engineering
Department of Geodetic Engineering
Department of Geomatic Engineering
Department of Materials Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Petroleum Engineering
Department of Reproductive Engineering

Scholarships
There are scholarships for brilliant but needy students
Edu Fondazione Scholarship, (Apply Now!)
Mark Foundation Scholarship, (Apply Now!)
Hulede Foundation KNUST Scholarship, (Apply Now!) 
Educational Pathways International Scholarships, (Apply Now!)
Mastercard Foundation Scholars Programme (Apply Now!)
Student Life
KNUST Campus Tour 2021 - Kumasi | Most Beautiful University Campus in Ghana?
Let’s Tour West Africa’s Best University. Best University In Ghana - KNUST campus Tour #KNUST
See what INDECE looks like in KNUST😱😱😱| KNUST TOUR| University Halls|Kumasi, Ghana
A DAY IN MY LIFE IN SCHOOL (KNUST )🏢 || SCHOOL VLOG ||
KNUST Socials
https://www.facebook.com/KNUSTksi
https://twitter.com/KNUSTGH
https://www.linkedin.com/school/kwame-nkrumah-university-of-science-&-technology-kumasi/